# Contributing to the project

We welcome any input, feedback, bug reports and contributions via the [project's GitHub Repository](https://github.com/GloriaYi/Maternal-Health-Risk-Classifier).

All contributions, suggestions and feedback you submitted are accepted under the [Project's license](LICENSE). You represent that if you do not own copyright in the code that you have the authority to submit it under the [Project's license](LICENSE). All feedback, suggestions or contributions are not confidential. The project abides by the [UBC MDS Code of Conduct](https://ubc-mds.github.io/resources_pages/code_of_conduct/).

## How to contribute

### Setup

For more information about the project dependencies and environment, see [README.md](README.md).
> If you are using Windows or Mac, make sure Docker Desktop is running.

1. Clone this GitHub repository.

2. Navigate to the root of this project on your computer using the command line and enter the following command:

``` 
make up
```

3. Browse to this url: http://localhost:8886/

4. To reset the project to a clean state (i.e., remove all files generated by previous runs of the analysis), open a terminal and run the following command:

```
make clean
```

5. To run the analysis in its entirety, enter the following command in the terminal in the project root:

```
make all
```

### Clean Up

To shut down the container and clean up the resources, run the following commands:

Stop the Docker compose services:

``` bash
make stop
```

Remove the containers and associated resources:

``` bash
make remove
```

### Creating a Branch

Once your local environment is up-to-date, you can create a new git branch which will contain your contribution (always create a new branch instead of making changes to the main branch):

``` bash
git switch -c <your-branch-name>
```

With this branch checked-out, make the desired changes to this project.

### Creating a Pull Request

Once you have tested and are happy with your changes, you can commit them to your branch by running:

``` bash
git add <modified-file>
git commit -m "Some descriptive message about your change"
git push origin <your-branch-name>
```

You will then need to submit a pull request (PR) on GitHub asking to merge your branch into the main project repository. Please provide a clear description of the changes you have made and their purpose. Tag a reviewer to ensure that your PR is reviewed in a prompt manner. Reviewers may provide feedback or request changes. Once the PR is approved, you will be able to merge it into the main branch of the project's repository. 

## Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms. 

## Attribution

These contributing guidelines are adapted from the [altair feedback and contribution guidelines](https://github.com/vega/altair/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
